<https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/7357454>

framework: anomaly-based intrusion detection (ABID)

> detect activities that deviate significantly from the normal profile

problem: detecting protocol-aware jammers

protocol-aware jammers:

> target MAC or NET layer control message 
>
> increase jamming effectiveness and remain harder to detect

the work have two proposal:

-  tracking the statistics of signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) and packet type (critical or non-critical)
-  only requires information about packet loss

consequence:

- these types of jammers can be detected in a large portion of scenarios.

方法一：使用SNR（信噪比）进行协议感知干扰的检测

- 关于已知条件的假设

  - packet type is known to the receiver (关键与否/是否是控制数据包)
  - receiver can estimate the SNR
  - SNR will get reduced significantly when there is a jammer.

- Jammer Models

  - Non-Protocol-Aware(Non-PA):
    - Jams packets with no knowledge of which ones are critical
    - Only jams b packets, where b is a fraction
    - Causes SNR of target to drop to d when jamming
  - Protocol-Aware (PA)
    - Only jams critical packets
    - It only jams c critical packet packets, where c is a fraction
    - Causes SNR of target to drop to d when jamming

- 变量描述

  - Xc Represents the SNR of an observation corresponding to a single critical packet
  - Xnc Represents the SNR of an observation corresponding to a single non-critical packet
  - Xcn is the SNR of *Nc* critical packet observations averaged together
  - Xncn is the SNR of *NNC* non-critical packet observations averaged together
  - M = Xcn/Xncn

- 检测方法

  - As for PA, M will approach to zero when Nc and Nnc approach the infinity.
  - As for Non-PA, M will approach to one.

方法二：利用丢包率进行PA检测  

- 并不是所有的无线电波的包的SNR都能被检测到。
- 检测方法 
  - keep a running total of dropped critical packets and dropped noncritical packets.  
  - number of dropped critical packets reaches a certain threshold, denoted as Nc, we will calculate the ratio between the two running totals.
  - If this ratio is significantly greater than 1, it indicates the presence of a protocol-aware jammer. 



  